[Music]
okay so here's another burning question
from deep down in my feeble little mind
what would happen if you didn't shower
for a year mm-hmm although not many of
us would be willing to test it for
ourselves I'm sure a lot of you too have
wondered what would happen if you quit
showering for a year and while there
hasn't been much experimentation on this
subject
scientists do still know some
consequences of this dirty decision so
let's find out what exactly they are but
before we start don't forget to
subscribe to our Channel and hit that
little notification bell so you won't
miss any of our new videos all right a
year without showering huh well the good
news is is that it won't kill you so
there's that the bad news is that you
definitely won't be a happy camper in
the end or along the way the first thing
you'll notice is the stench and so will
everyone else which will show up in just
a couple of days this is all thanks to
bacteria sweat and dead skin cells that
remain on your body if you don't scrub
them away you can probably imagine how
bad the smell is gonna be after a year
forget about going anywhere unnoticed
everyone will be able to smell you a
mile away plus after a little over a
week it'll lead to a condition called
hyperkeratosis which is basically the
thickening of the outer layer of skin
and it's all downhill from there after
the first month of your shower free
lifestyle or even earlier you can expect
all kinds of rashes itching and
irritation to appear on your skin this
is especially true for the groin area
which can also lead to other health
problems
cut to a not so distant future and
you'll see fungi and brown bumps start
to grow in your body no joke without
proper exfoliation your skin will
quickly become either super oily or
really dry and it doesn't matter which
one is gonna be both imbalances lead to
an overgrowth of yeast and bacteria YUM
according to dr. Carolyn Jacob the
director of Chicago cosmetic surgery and
dermatology the oilless parts of your
body such as your armpits behind your
ears and so on which slowly collect dirt
and pollutants this dirt and buildup oil
within clumped together with dead skin
cells to make a really unpleasant combo
now if that's not enough motivation to
shower regularly then I don't know what
is so let's keep this nasty snowball
going shall we
the next major trouble you'll face is
that you'd become way more prone to
different types of infections for
example if you accidentally get a cut or
scratch and it's left unwashed it'll
basically be an open door for bacteria
to enter your body or infect your wound
since washing your hair and scalp come
along with showering then prepare
yourself for some major itching on your
head that's once again due to the
accumulation of oil and dead skin and
after a whole year of not showering well
you'd be scratching your scalp non-stop
your hair will go through the same
stages as your skin it'll get really
oily from the start then it'll collect
an unreal amount of dirt and pollutants
leaving you with a not so pleasant smell
and don't forget to add dandruff to the
mix not a pretty picture we're painting
here is it hey anybody eating right now
or trying to it's about to get better
again if you're not showering then that
means you're not washing your face so as
you can imagine you've set yourself up
for a severe case of acne the oily sebum
on your face would just keep building up
along with bacteria your pores will get
all clogged up with this nasty gunk and
there you go
you have new pimples popping up left and
right as for a whole year without
washing your face in the shower your
face would be covered in zips and of
course where there's bacteria and broken
skin there can be infections and health
problems so it's not just all about
aesthetics here the most interesting
thing though is that
shower won't make everything go back to
the way it was it'll take at least a
week for the skin to return to its
normal state hey anybody else thinking
of hopping in the shower and scrubbing
yourself from head to toe immediately
after this video huh the line forms over
here I did say that not many of us would
try this experiment out in real life but
it didn't say nobody there's actually a
guy named Rob Greenfield who went a
whole year without showering he shared
his experiences online good thing we
couldn't smell him over the Internet
Ron says that it made him reconsider a
lot of his life choices and that he came
out a much happier person in the ad but
you might say he kind of cheated a bit
yes he didn't technically shower but he
did swim in rivers and lakes
occasionally throughout the year
sometimes he would even use eco-friendly
soap instead of products full of
chemicals it must have worked because
this guy looks okay to me
still if you don't use water swim or
shower at all all that scary stuff we
talked about before would definitely
become your reality alright enough with
a hypothetical and extreme situation of
not showering at all for a year smells a
lot better doesn't it let's talk about
right now all of us who practice good
personal hygiene and wash ourselves
regularly according to the expert there
are a couple of tips that you should
follow in order to shower the right way
the first important thing to be careful
of is the temperature you're choosing
make sure it's not too hot because hot
water will suck the moisture from your
skin by removing a lot of your natural
oils lukewarm water is a better way to
go bad news for all the lovers of long
and thoughtful showers specialists have
estimated that your shower should last
10 minutes tops again it's because long
showers can dry out your skin as well
having two or three showers a day will
do the same thing so yeah that's not a
great idea either
instead of lathering up your entire body
it's better to just stick to the areas
with a bunch of sweat glands such as
your armpits groin underneath the
breasts
and wherever else you tend to sweat a
lot that doesn't mean you shouldn't pay
attention to everything else though just
focus on these areas a bit more over
soaping your arms and legs is no good
either since it strips your skin of its
natural oils the final step you have to
take here is using lotion or any
moisturizer of your choice you can also
do it beforehand or right in the shower
this will help trap moisture in the skin
and protect it from outside factors if
you're a fan of natural products use
coconut oil it takes care of the skin
and makes it baby soft just watch out
for the monkeys this step is especially
necessary for people with dry skin
taking time to make sure that your skin
is plump and moisturized will only do it
good so which one of these consequences
of a shower free year did you find the
most surprising or disturbing I don't
know I think the smell rises to the top
of my list hey let us know in the
comments below be sure to share this
video with your friends just don't tell
them the video stinks let them find out
for themselves subscribe if you haven't
already to be sure you get all our
latest updates and videos and we'll see
you right back here on the bright side
on the
[Music]